hi I'm Christian Mason with Deuter packs
today I'm going to talk to you about the
hair contact trail system and series
that we have we have four different
packs in the range starting at 20 liters
and ending up on the upper end and 32
liters um basically these packs feature
what we call our air contact back that
air contact back is close to the back in
fact it makes good contact with the back
keeping that load up close to the back
as you can see here there's a nice
channel here for ventilation and a soft
outer foam that's really nice and soft
to the touch and then on the inside is a
particular type of phone that allows air
to pass through in fact this back system
will reduce perspiration by 15% sweating
less more energy more fun this back
system also features a Delrin hoop
construction so it is a plastic type of
construction that is quite sturdy in
fact you can see that here on the inside
of the back that's that Delrin hoop that
you'll see here okay in the in the range
they all have very comfortable shoulder
straps with a nice sternum strap
adjustment that you see here in the
smaller packs the 20 and the 24 this is
the 24 what you'll see is a hip belt it
tucks away okay so it hides inside of
this little garage let's just say and
the nice thing about that is when you
carrying the pack with quite a bit of a
load you've got this hip belt to support
the load and you can see that it's match
that you won't get sweaty but then and
if in the event you're not carrying a
heavy load and you just want to tuck it
away and have it out of the way say if
you're going to the zoo or just going on
a short hike and what-have-you and you
can tuck that away so that's a nice
feature that you'll find on the 20 and
the 24 is that tuck away hip belt on the
larger volume packs the 28 SL and the 32
you'll find this more substantial hip
belt with that nice soft foam again and
you'll find a nice pocket on the right
side and then you'll also find the
poll for construction so when you strap
and buckle it in pull it forward and
adjust that load in towards you okay
you also have load adjusters here
because you will put enough weight in
this pack to carry that load so it'll
allow you to shift that load around as
you hike
now on the front side you might think oh
hey this is the top loading pack well it
sure is and you can see here that that
load can you can access the inside of
the pack from the top but what's unique
about this pack is that you can also
access the load through this u-shape
opening okay so the zipper opening as
you can see here just fantastic look at
that access into the pack a great way to
access small items your lunch your
layers things of that nature of snack
and what-have-you
additionally the little blue zipper pull
that indicates that there's a rain cover
found in here and you can see that here
if you're trying to be weight conscious
you can remove the rain cover it's very
easy to just pull it out and then later
on put it in and then it doubles as a
nice valuables pocket here at the bottom
okay
additionally you can carry an axe here
capture the shaft of your axe here or
you could put trekking poles through
these two loops here and then capture
the shaft right here this is an
asymmetrical pack on one side you could
see the zippered valuables pocket right
here by the way a variety of different
bottles fit in here of all shapes and
sizes and what as well you can close
that off and then on this side your more
traditional bottle pocket that you see
here to capture your water bottle of
what have you and then here a little bit
hidden here is a nice StuffIt pocket
that fits a helmet just fine layers a
whole host of different things and as
you can see that when you pull on this
strap it's going to
take all that load and pull it inward so
you get excellent compression all the
way around here at the top and then
additionally down here at the bottom
okay um a nice valuables pocket here at
the top you see here and then on your
underside you know again another little
valuable pocket that you see right here
so again these are the acct trails
fantastic day hiking packs and or
climbing packs great packs running from
20 liters all the way up to 32 air
contact trial available at tal Mountain
Sports